A Norwegian Captain.
A Priest.
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-  
A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
A Gentleman, courtier.
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
A brother's murther! Pray can I not,
A double blessing is a double grace;
A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
A combination and a form indeed
A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
A face without a heart,'
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
A room in the Castle.
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
A second time I kill my husband dead
A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
A sable silver'd.
A noise within.
A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
A station like the herald Mercury
A very, very- pajock.
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
A table and flagons of wine on it.  
A very noble youth. Mark.
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
A villain kills my father; and for that,
A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
A scullion!  
ACT III. Scene I.
ACT V. Scene I.
ACT IV. Scene I.
About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
ACT I. Scene I.
All may be well.                                  He kneels.
Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me.                      Exit.  
Act II. Scene I.
Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
Affront Ophelia.  
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
All flaxen was his poll.
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Alack, and fie for shame!
All in the morning bedtime,
According to the phrase or the addition
All. Lights, lights, lights!
Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
All. Gentlemen!
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Against the which a moiety competent
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
After the thing it loves.
All. We will, we will!
Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
All given to mine ear.
Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
All. Treason! treason!
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
All. No, let's come in!
All my smooth body.
All. Our duty to your honour.  
An understanding simple and unschool'd;
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
And I am sick at heart.
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
And I a maid at your window,
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
An thou hadst not come to my bed.'
And bear it to the chapel.
And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
And at our more consider'd time we'll read,  
And I the matter will reword; which madness
And I do think- or else this brain of mine
And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
Among a mineral of metals base,
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,  
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
And am most sensibly in grief for it,
And after we will both our judgments join
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
And all we mourn for.  
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
And You must put me in your heart for friend,
And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
And carriage of the article design'd,
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
And dupp'd the chamber door,
And call the noblest to the audience.
And break your own neck down.
And call it accident.
And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
And do not spread the compost on the weeds
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
And each particular hair to stand an end
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
And could of men distinguish, her election
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
And hath shipped me intil the land,
And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
And gem of all the nation.
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
And do such bitter business as the day
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
And foreign mart for implements of war;
And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed  
And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh  
And draw you into madness? Think of it.
And for your rapier most especially,
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
And do't the speedier that you may direct me
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
And he to England shall along with you.
And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
And for my means, I'll husband them so well
And gave you such a masterly report
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
And for his death no wind
And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
And in his grave rain'd many a tear.
And enterprises of great pith and moment
And hears it roar beneath.
And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
And ever three parts coward,- I do not know
And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
And let him know so.
And hath abatements and delays as many  
And his sandal shoon.
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
And hurt my brother.
And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!
And it must follow, as the night the day,
And keep you in the rear of your affection,  
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
And in the cup an union shall he throw
And lay your hands again upon my sword.
And let them know both what we mean to do
And in this brainish apprehension kills
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
And live the purer with the other half,
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
And many such-like as's of great charge,
And not have strew'd thy grave.
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
And makes each petty artire in this body
And set a double varnish on the fame
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
And let us once again assail your ears,
And more above, hath his solicitings,
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
And our affairs from England come too late.  
And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi', you.
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
And pious action we do sugar o'er  
And that I see, in passages of proof,
And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
And not where I had aim'd them.
And my imaginations are as foul
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
And never come mischance between us twain!
And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame  
And prey on garbage.
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
And put it in his pocket!  
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
And reason panders will.
And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
And prologue to the omen coming on,
And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
And recks not his own rede.
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
And passion in the gods.'
And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
And that our drift look through our bad performance.
And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
And sure I am two men there are not living
As day does to your eye.
And so, without more circumstance at all,
And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
And there assume some other, horrible form
And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
And tell you what I know.
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-  
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
And these few precepts in thy memory
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
And there I see such black and grained spots
And thy commandment all alone shall live
And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
And thus the native hue of resolution
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
And they can well on horseback; but this gallant  
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more.
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
And to the manner born, it is a custom
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
Come.
As if I had never been such.
And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
And will he not come again?
And to the last bended their light on me.
And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
And thus a while the fit will work on him.
And they in France of the best rank and station
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
And vanish'd from our sight.
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
And we cast away moan.
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
And that in way of caution- I must tell you
And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
And we did think it writ down in our duty
And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
And will he not come again?
And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And with a larger tether may he walk
Answer, and think upon this business.
And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
And with no less nobility of love
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
And will not wrong it.
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
And with a look so piteous in purport
And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
And when you are desirous to be blest,
And, as the world were now but to begin,
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
And, like a man to double business bound,
Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid  
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
As he in his particular act and place
And will not let belief take hold of him
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
Anon, as patient as the female dove
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
And, as I think, they have already order
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
As I do thee. Something too much of this I
Appears before them and with solemn march
And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.  
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
Are most select and generous, chief in that.
Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
As are companions noted and most known
As England was his faithful tributary,
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
As did that one; and that, in my regard,
Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
As fits a king's remembrance.
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
As harbingers preceding still the fates
As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
As infinite as man may undergo-  
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
As it doth well appear unto our state,
As if it some impartment did desire
As from the body of contraction plucks  
As he is very potent with such spirits,
As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.  
As it is common for the younger sort
As it hath us'd to do- that I have found  
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
As level as the cannon to his blank,
As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
Are joyfully return'd.
As if he had been loosed out of hell
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
As if increase of appetite had grown
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
As make your bouts more violent to that end-
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
As low as to the fiends!
As by lot, God wot,'
As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
As to expend your time with us awhile
As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
At his head a grass-green turf,
At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.        [Writes.]
Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
As oft as any passion under heaven
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
As of a father; for let the world take note
Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
Away! for everything is seal'd and done
As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
At his heels a stone.
As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
Be you and I behind an arras then.
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
As to peace-parted souls.
Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come.
As will not leave their tinct.
As one incapable of her own distress,
Attendants].
Be all my sins rememb'red.
Being a thing immortal as itself?  
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
Believe so much in him, that he is young,
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage;
Behind the arras I'll convey myself
As therein are set down.
Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
Been struck so to the soul that presently
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
Before You visit him, to make inquire
Ber. Last night of all,
Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
Ber. Who's there.?
Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Ber. 'Tis here!
Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.  
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
Before my daughter told me), what might you,
Ber. I have seen nothing.
Ber. Say-
Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
Ber. It would be spoke to.
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
Bernardo, officer.
Ber. Long live the King!
Ber. Sit down awhile,
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is)
Ber. See, it stalks away!
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
Both. My lord, from head to foot.
Ber. He.
Both. We'll wait upon you.  
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?  
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
Both. Longer, longer.
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
Both. Arm'd, my lord.
Ber. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
Break we our watch up; and by my advice  
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
Both to my God and to my gracious king;
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
Both. We will, my lord.                       Exeunt they two.
But age with his stealing steps
Ber. Well, good night.
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.  
But I do prophesy th' election lights  
But even his mother shall uncharge the practice  
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
Both. My lord, we will not.
Both. We will haste us.
But I have that within which passeth show-
But I will delve one yard below their mines
But answer made it none. Yet once methought
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
But better look'd into, he truly found
Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
But never doubt I love.
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
But this eternal blazon must not be
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
But he's an arrant knave.
But come!
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
But you shall hear. Thus:
But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
But keep a farm and carters.
But to confront the visage of offence?
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
But farewell it, for I will use no art.  
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
But that this folly douts it.                          Exit.
But that I know love is begun by time,
But what we do determine oft we break.
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
But to my mind, though I am native here  
But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
But if the gods themselves did see her then,
But in battalions! First, her father slain;
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
But mere implorators of unholy suits,  
But if you hold it fit, after the play
But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King-
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
But do not go with it!
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
But that the dread of something after death-
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
But let that go.
But let this same be presently perform'd,
But truly I do fear it.
But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword  
But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
By Cock, they are to blame.
Capt. God b' wi' you, sir.                             [Exit.]
By his cockle bat and' staff
But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
But, orderly to end where I begun,  
But you must know, your father lost a father;
Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
But, as we often see, against some storm,
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
By letters congruing to that effect,
By this encompassment and drift of question
By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
But you'll be secret?
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
By indirections find directions out.
By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
By laboursome petition, and at last
Capt. Against some part of Poland.  
But let me hear from you.
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
Capt. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
Can you advise me?
Capt. I will do't, my lord.
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
Capt. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Clown. For no man, sir.
Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
Claudius, King of Denmark.
Capt. They are of Norway, sir.
Clown. (Sings)
Clown. To't.
Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law.
Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,  
Capt. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
Clown. For none neither.
Clown digs and] sings.
Clown. (sings)
Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well.
Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
Clown. E'en that.
Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of
Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
Clown. Mine, sir.
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there;
Clown. Very strangely, they say.
Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy  
Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
Colours, and Attendants.
Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
Come short of what he did.
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
Come, some music!
Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
Come hither, gentlemen,
Consent to swear.
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Could not (with all their quantity of love)
Cornelius, courtier.
Come. (They play.) Another hit. What say you?
Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Could not so mope.
Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,  
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
Did nothing.
Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;  
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
Divided from herself and her fair-judgment,
Doubt thou the stars are fire;
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Does by their own insinuation grow.
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
Dramatis Personae
Doubt truth to be a liar;
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Doubt that the sun doth move;
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw  
Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Do I impart toward you. For your intent  
Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal.
Elsinore.
Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].
Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. A passage in the Castle.
Elsinore. A churchyard.
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. hall in the Castle.
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
Drabbing. You may go so far.
English Ambassadors.
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
Enter Ghost.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.
Enter Ghost.
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum,
Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
Enter Ghost again.
Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.  
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.
Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
Enter Horatio with an Attendant.
Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
Enter King and Laertes.
Enter King and Polonius.
Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Lords.
Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter Horatio.
Enter King.
Enter King.
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
Enter Polonius.  
Enter Ophelia.  
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Ophelia.
Enter Ophelia distracted.
Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter Lucianus.
Enter Laertes with others.
Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.  
Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
Enter Queen and Polonius.
Enter Queen.
Enter a Messenger.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Prologue.
Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
Enter a Messenger with letters.
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
Enter Polonius.
Enter the Players with recorders.  
Enter Rosencrantz.
Enter four or five Players.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Polonius.
Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Sailors.
Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter a Lord.
Exeunt King and Polonius].
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
Enter young Osric, a courtier.
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
Enter two Clowns, [with spades and pickaxes].
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
Exeunt Attendants.]
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
Exeunt
Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
Exeunt Gentlemen.
Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
Exeunt.
Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
Exeunt.
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].
Exeunt all but Hamlet.]  
Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.
Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance
Exeunt.
Exit Gentleman.]
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Exeunt [all but the Captain].
Exit First Player.]
Exeunt Players.
Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
Exit Attendant.]
Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
Exit Ghost.
Exit.
Exit Ghost.
Exit Ghost.
Exit Second Clown.]  
Exit Reynaldo.
Exit Messenger.
Exit Lord.]
Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
Exit Horatio.]  
Exit Horatio.
Exit Queen.]
Exit [Polonius].  
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Exit [Polonius].
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
Exit.
Exit Polonius.]
Exit.
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
Exit.
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Fare you well, my dove!
Exit.
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
Follow my mother.                                 King dies.
Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
Farewell, dear mother.
Flourish for the Players.
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet,
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
Farewell.
Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, cum aliis.
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
For England.
For Hecuba!
For art and exercise in your defence,
For and a shrouding sheet;
Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
For every man hath business and desire,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
For he himself is subject to his birth.
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,  
For he was likely, had he been put on,
For if the King like not the comedy,
For by the image of my cause I see
For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
For husband shalt thou-
For in the fatness of these pursy times
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
For it is as the air, invulnerable,
For nature crescent does not grow alone
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
For out o' doors he went without their help
For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
For they are actions that a man might play;
For such a guest is meet.
For what advancement may I hope from thee,  
For that which thou hast done,- must send thee hence
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
For this effect defective comes by cause.
For the demand of our neglected tribute.
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
For such a guest is meet.
For. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king.
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
For the supply and profit of our hope,
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
For what we know must be, and is as common
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
For your desire to know what is between us,
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
For. Go softly on.
For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
Fort. Let us haste to hear it,  
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
Fort. Where is this sight?
Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.  
Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting;
Fort. Let four captains
Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Ghost beckons.]  
Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
Fran. Give you good night.
Fran. Bernardo?
Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
Give me my father!
From another one?
Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
Ghost cries under the stage.
Fran. Bernardo hath my place.
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
Ghost of Hamlet's Father.
Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
Ghost. My hour is almost come,
For women's fear and love holds quantity,
Francisco, a soldier
Gent. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
Give it an understanding but no tongue.
Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
From me, whose love was of that dignity
Ghost. I am thy father's spirit,
Gent. She is importunate, indeed distract.
From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts  
Give him the cup.
Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
Get you a place.
Ghost beckons Hamlet.
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Ghost. Mark me.
Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
Give me one poor request.
Give us the foils. Come on.
Ghost. I find thee apt;
Ghost. Swear.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
Give, me superfluous death.                  A noise within.
Gives a paper.]
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
Give you good night.                                   Exit.
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Giving to you no further personal power
Given private time to you, and you yourself
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
Go on. I'll follow thee.
God bless you, sir!
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
God 'a'mercy on his soul!
Go to thy deathbed;
Gonzago'?
Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
Good night, mother.
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.-
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
Guil. Believe me, I cannot.
Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
Grapples with him].
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
Guil. But we both obey,
Guil. A thing, my lord?
Guil. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I
Guil. Faith, her privates we.
Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,  
Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.
Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
Guil. In what, my dear lord?
Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.  
Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
Guil. Prison, my lord?  
Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard
Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
Guil. My lord, I cannot.
Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
Guil. We will ourselves provide.
Guil. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Ham. And smelt so? Pah!
Guil. My honour'd lord!
Guil. What, my lord?
Guil. What should we say, my lord?
Guil. There are the players.
Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
Guildenstern, courtier.
Ham.   Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
HAMLET.'
Guil. The King, sir-
HAMLET.'
Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
Ham. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
Ham. 'By-and-by' is easily said.- Leave me, friends.
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat,
Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
Ham. An earnest conjuration from the King,
Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Ham. 'Tis very strange.
Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
Ham.   A whole one I!
Ham. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
Ham.   Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
Ham. Arm'd, say you?
Ham. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier
Ham. As woman's love.
Ham. As th'art a man,
Ham. Are you fair?
Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Ham. At supper.
Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
Ham. Ay, marry, is't;
Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
Ham. Being thus benetted round with villanies,
Ham. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come.
Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
Ham. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'- the proverb is something
Ham. Between who?
Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
Ham. Come on, sir.
Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
Ham. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,  
Ham. Do not believe it.
Ham. Do the boys carry it away?  
Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god  
Ham. Did you not speak to it?
Ham. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
Ham. But where was this?
Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
Ham. Do you see nothing there?
Ham. Denmark's a prison.
Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;
Ham. Buzz, buzz!
Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?
Ham. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally.
Ham. For England?
Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
Ham. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
Ham. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
Ham. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
Ham. From top to toe?
Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
Ham. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
Ham. Ecstasy?
Ham. Good.  
Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
Ham. I beseech you remember.
Ham. He will stay till you come.
Ham. For God's love let me hear!
Ham. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Ham. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
Ham. Good sir, whose powers are these?
Ham. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
Ham. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
Ham. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
Ham. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
Ham. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
Ham. Hold off your hands!
Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.  
Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
Ham. How if I answer no?
Ham. How is it with you, lady?
Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
Ham. Good madam!
Ham. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
Ham. How long is that since?
Ham. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
Ham. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
Ham. How came he mad?
Ham. Hear you, sir!
Ham. How does the Queen?
Ham. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
Ham. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
Ham. How strangely?
Ham. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in
Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.
Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.
Ham. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
Ham. I will.
Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Ham. I am glad to see you well.
Ham. I must to England; you know that?
Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
Ham. I am very glad to see you.- [To Bernardo] Good even, sir.-  
Ham. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.
Ham. I pray you.
Ham. I do beseech you.
Ham. I will watch to-night.
Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
Ham. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
Ham. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in
Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
Ham. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
Ham. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
Ham. If she should break it now!
Ham. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance
Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,
Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
Ham. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
Ham. I embrace it freely,
Ham. If it assume my noble father's person,
Ham. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
Ham. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
Ham. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.  
Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
Ham. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
Ham. In happy time.
Ham. I would I had been there.
Ham. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
Ham. Into my grave?
Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
Ham. Is't possible?
Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
Ham. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
Ham. Judgment!
Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
Ham. It waves me still.
Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
Ham. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.
Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,
Ham. Murther?
Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
Ham. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him,  
Ham. Look here upon th's picture, and on this,
Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.  
Ham. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.
Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
Ham. Nay come! again!                         The Queen falls.  
Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
Ham. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
Ham. Nay, but to live
Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
Ham. My fate cries out
Ham. Nay, but swear't.
Ham. Nay, I know not.
Ham. Nay, do not think I flatter;
Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
Ham. No, by the rood, not so!
Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
Ham. Nay, that follows not.
Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
Ham. No, by this bad.  
Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
Ham. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
Ham. No, not I!
Ham. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
Ham. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.
Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
Ham. Nor did you nothing hear?
Ham. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
Ham. No, you will reveal it.
Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?
Ham. Nothing.
Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
Ham. Or like a whale.
Ham. O God!
Ham. O my prophetic soul!
Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
Ham. O, throw away the worser part of it,
Ham. Pale or red?
Ham. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
Ham. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
Ham. O, I die, Horatio!
Ham. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
Ham. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
Ham. She well instructs me.
Ham. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
Ham. One.
Ham. Saw? who?
Ham. Of him, sir.
Ham. Safely stow'd.
Ham. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
Ham. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I  
Ham. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
Ham. Sir, I cannot.
Ham. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
Ham. Sir, a whole history.
Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
Ham. So be it!
Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
Ham. Such an act
Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
Ham. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
Ham. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
Ham. That is Laertes,
Ham. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
Ham. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights
Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
Ham. That's two of his weapons- but well.
Ham. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
Ham. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
Ham. The King my father?
Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
Ham. The point envenom'd too?
Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
Ham. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
Ham. Then saw you not his face?
Ham. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Ham. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I  
Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.  
Ham. This?
Ham. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
Ham. Thou pray'st not well.
Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.
Ham. Upon what ground?
Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?  
Ham. What did you enact?
Ham. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
Ham. These tedious old fools!
Ham. What, ho, Horatio!
Ham. Upon my sword.
Ham. Up from my cabin,
Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
Ham. Very well, my lord.
Ham. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
Ham. What imports the nomination of this gentleman
Ham. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not.
Ham. What's the matter now?
Ham. What hour now?
Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
Ham. What call you the carriages?
Ham. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
Ham. Who, I?
Ham. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Ham. Why,
Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?
Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
Ham. What?
Ham. What's his weapon?
Ham. Who commands them, sir?
Ham. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?
Ham. What man dost thou dig it for?
Ham. What woman then?
Ham. Words, words, words.
Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
Ham. Whose was it?
Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
Ham. Why, right! You are in the right!
Ham. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
Ham. Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
Ham. With drink, sir?
Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
Ham. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away!  
Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
Ham. [draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead!
Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
Ham. Why?
Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
Ham. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
Ham. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
Haply the seas, and countries different,
Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
Ham. Why he more than another?
Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
Hamlet the Dane.                    [Leaps in after Laertes.
Ham. [comes forward] What is he whose grief  
Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Ham. [aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
Hath clawed me in his clutch,
Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd  
Ham. Why,
Ham. You are welcome.
Ham. [aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.
Have by the very cunning of the scene
Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous.
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
He answers:
He falls to such perusal of my face
Have you so slander any moment leisure
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
He is dead and gone;
He is gone, he is gone,
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
He never gave commandment for their death.
He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
He closes with you in this consequence:
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
Here's to thy health.
He never will come again.
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
Her mood will needs be pitied.
Hecuba.
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
Here in the lobby.
Help, help, ho!
Her brother is in secret come from France;
He] sleeps.
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
He took my father grossly, full of bread,
He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
Here's yet some liquor left.
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.  
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
His access to me.
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
High on a stage be placed to the view;
Here stooping to your clemency,
Her father and myself (lawful espials)
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
Hor. Let them come in.
His beard was as white as snow,
Hor. Ay, my lord.
His further gait herein, in that the levies,
Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
His silence will sit drooping.
Hold you the watch to-night?
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
His means of death, his obscure funeral-
Hor. A piece of him.
Hor. 'Tis here!
His liberty is full of threats to all-
Hor. Ay, good my lord.
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
Hor. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.  
Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Hor. E'en so.
Hor. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too.
Hor. Do not, my lord!
Hor. Custom hath made it in him a Property of easiness.
Hor. Heaven will direct it.
Hor. As thou art to thyself.
Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
Hor. (within) My lord, my lord!
Hor. Friends to this ground.
Hor. A truant disposition, good my lord.
Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;  
Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
Hor. Do, if it will not stand.
Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
Hor. Hail to your lordship!
Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.
Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.  
Hor. (reads the letter) 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing  
Hor. I think it lacks of twelve.
Hor. Heaven secure him!
Hor. I did very well note him.
Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
Hor. Most constantly.
Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
Hor. My lord, the King your father.
Hor. Peace! Who comes here?
Hor. Good my lord, be quiet.
Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
Hor. In faith,
Hor. Half a share.
Hor. Let him bless thee too.
Hor. I beseech you.
Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
Hor. E'en so, my lord.
Hor. It might, my lord.
Hor. How was this seal'd?
Hor. It must be shortly known to him from England
Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
Hor. Is't possible?
Hor. I warr'nt it will.
Hor. Nay, good my lord -
Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
Hor. Look, my lord, it comes!
Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
Hor. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
Hor. Season your admiration for a while
Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
Hor. Never believe it.
Hor. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
Hor. Not when I saw't.
Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
Hor. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
Hor. O, my dear lord!
Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.  
Hor. Nay, very pale.
Hor. Very well, my lord.
Hor. That is most certain.
Hor. No, by no means!
Hor. O, where, my lord?
Hor. My lord, I did;
Hor. Not a jot more, my lord.
Hor. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
Hor. That can I.
Hor. Well, my lord.
Hor. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
Hor. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
Hor. Remember it, my lord!
Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
Hor. Is it a custom?
Hor. Well, sit we down,
Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
Hor. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
Hor. Not from his mouth,
Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.  
Hor. What are they that would speak with me?
Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Hor. What news, my lord?
Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen
Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
Hor. What is it you will see?
Hor. What's that, my lord?
Hor. You will lose this wager, my lord.
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
Hor. [aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Hor. You might have rhym'd.
Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
Hor. Why, what a king is this!
How does your honour for this many a day?
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord.
How much I had to do to calm his rage I
Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
How all occasions do inform against me
How should I your true-love know
How now, sweet queen?
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
How now? What news?
How now O What hath befall'n?
How these things came about. So shall You hear
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
How in my words somever she be shent,
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.             Exit.
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
How to forget that learning; but, sir, now  
I pray you go with me.
I am afeard You make a wanton of me.
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
I be so able as now.
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
I cannot live to hear the news from England,
I could not but by her. The other motive
I do beseech you give him leave to go.
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
I do not know from what part of the world
I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.  
I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
I did repel his letters and denied
I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
I had my father's signet in my purse,
I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
I have a voice and precedent of peace
I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
I pray you, now receive them.
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
I never gave you aught.
I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
I ha't!
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
I have sworn't.
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
I must be cruel, only to be kind;
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
I will bestow him, and will answer well
I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
I stay too long. But here my father comes.
I shall not look upon his like again.
I'll blessing beg of you.- For this same lord,  
I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement
I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
If it be made of penetrable stuff;
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
I should have fatted all the region kites
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
If circumstances lead me, I will find
If I had play'd the desk or table book,
I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
If by direct or by collateral hand
I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
I have in quick determination
If his chief good and market of his time
I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
If there be any good thing to be done,
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe  
If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
I would know that.
If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
I'll visit you.
If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
If damned custom have not braz'd it so
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
If you desire to know the certainty
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
I'll rant as well as thou.
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
Importing health and graveness. Two months since
If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his  
In censure of his seeming.
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
In hugger-mugger to inter him; Poor Ophelia
In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
In further evil?
Importing the surrender of those lands
In filial obligation for some term
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Is by a forged process of my death
In youth when I did love, did love,
In obstinate condolement is a course
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
In the corrupted currents of this world
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
In thee there is not half an hour of life.
In the dead vast and middle of the night
In noise so rude against me?
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
In general synod take away her power;
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
Is not to stir without great argument,
Into a tow'ring passion.
It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'  
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
Is the great love the general gender bear him,
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
It had been so with us, had we been there.
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this.
Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you-
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
It came to pass, as most like it was.'
Is very cunning in.
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
Is thought-sick at the act.
In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
In honourable fashion.
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
In neither aught, or in extremity.
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
Is the main motive of our preparations,
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
It could not move thus.  
It sends some precious instance of itself
It is most retrograde to our desire;
It lifted up it head and did address
It may be death.
It warms the very sickness in my heart
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
It waves you to a more removed ground.
It will be laid to us, whose providence
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
King. Alas, alas!
King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
King. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
King. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
King. Do you think 'tis this?
King. A very riband in the cap of youth-
King. Ay, Hamlet.
King. Dead.
King. Bring him before us.
King. A Norman.
King. But how hath she
King. Conceit upon her father.
King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;  
King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
King. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
King. At supper? Where?
King. But where is he?
King. Give me some light! Away!
King. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
King. Good Laertes,
King. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
King. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
King. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
King. How long hath she been thus?
King. How do you, pretty lady?
King. He made confession of you;
King. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
King. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,-
King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
King. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
King. Gertrude, do not drink.
King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
King. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
King. I do not think't.
King. It falls right.
King. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
King. If it be so, Laertes
King. How may we try it further?
King. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
King. Let's further think of this,
King. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
King. Let's follow, Gertrude.  
King. Let him demand his fill.
King. It shall be so.
King. Part them! They are incens'd.
King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
King. Our son shall win.
King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
King. Pluck thein asunder.
King. Laertes, you shall hear them.
King. O, for two special reasons,
King. It likes us well;
King. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
King. O heavy deed!
King. Laertes, was your father dear to you?
King. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
King. Not that I know.
King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;  
King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
King. O, he is mad, Laertes.
King. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
King. Thanks, dear my lord.
King. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
King. She sounds to see them bleed.
King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
King. The very same.
King. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
King. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
King. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
King. Pretty Ophelia!
King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
King. Thou still hast been the father of good news.
King. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
King. O Gertrude, come away!
King. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
King. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
King. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
King. So you shall;
King. Well, we shall sift him.
King. What is the cause, Laertes,
King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
Laer. Ay my lord,
King. We will try it.
King. What dost thou mean by this?  
King. What do you call the play?
Laer. Alas, then she is drown'd?
King. Who shall stay you?
King. [aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
King. The doors are broke.
King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
Laer. A Norman was't?
Laer. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted.
King. Why, now You speak
King. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
King. Where is Polonius?
Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;
King. Will you know them then?
Laer. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
Laer. Have at you now!
Laer. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
Laer. Farewell.                                          Exit.
Laer. Do you see this, O God?
Laer. Come, my lord.                                They play.
Laer. Lay her i' th' earth;
Laer. Drown'd! O, where?
Laer. The devil take thy soul!
Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
Laer. I am satisfied in nature,
Laer. Let this be so.
Laer. O, fear me not!
Laer. I pray you give me leave.
Laer. I know him well. He is the broach indeed
Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
Laer. Say you so? Come on.                               Play.
Laer. I will do't!
Laer. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
Laer. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain;
Laer. My lord, I'll hit him now.
Laer. Must there no more be done?
Laer. Come, one for me.
Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
Laer. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
Laer. My lord, I will be rul'd;
Laer. Know you the hand?
Laer. To cut his throat i' th' church!
Laer. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
Laer. What out of this, my lord?
Laer. My will, not all the world!
Laer. This is too heavy; let me see another.
Laer. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
Laer. He is justly serv'd.
Laer. I thank you. Keep the door.      [Exeunt his Followers.]
Laer. It well appears. But tell me
Laer. My dread lord,
Laer. None but his enemies.
Laer. Well, again!
Laer. This nothing's more than matter.
Laer. How now? What noise is that?
Laer. No.
Laer. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Laer. Think it no more.
Laer. You mock me, sir.
Laer. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Laer. What ceremony else?
Laer. [aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
Laer. What ceremony else?
Laer. Where is this king?- Sirs, staid you all without.
Laer. Upon my life, Lamound.
Leaps in the grave.
Laer. O, treble woe
Laer. What part is that, my lord?
Laer. Where is my father?
Laer. Why ask you this?
Larded all with sweet flowers;
Laer. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they
Laertes before you fall to play.  
Laertes falls.]
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Last, and as such containing as all these,
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
Let in the maid, that out a maid
Laertes, son to Polonius.
Leave wringing of your hinds. Peace! sit you down
Let me be no assistant for a state,  
Leave us.
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
Lest with this piteous action you convert
Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.  
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him  
Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places  
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,-
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,  
Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
Looking before and after, gave us not
Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
Mar. 'Tis gone!
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.         Exeunt.
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
Mad let us grant him then. And now remains
Look you, I'll go pray.
Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.
Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
Mar. Lord Hamlet!
Mar. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
Makes vow before his uncle never more
Lords Attendant.
Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
Mar. No, it is struck.
Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
Mar. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
Mar. Look with what courteous action
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
Mar. It is offended.
Mar. Nor I, my lord.
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
Mar. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
Mar. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
Mar. O, wonderful!
Mar. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
Mar. We have sworn, my lord, already.
Mar. Is it not like the King?
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
Mar. My good lord!
Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
Mar. How is't, my noble lord?
Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
Marcellus, officer.
Marcellus?
Mar. Question it, Horatio.
Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
Mark you,
Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
Makes mouths at the invisible event,  
March within.]
May be a devil; and the devil hath power
May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
May sweep to my revenge.
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:
Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
Mess. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
Marcellus, Officer.
May give his saying deed; which is no further
May do t' express his love and friending to you,
Mess. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
Methought it was very sweet;
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
Mar. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
Most generous, and free from all contriving,
More than in words?
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
Most holy and religious fear it is
More relative than this. The play's the thing
Most free in his reply.
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Most throughly for my father.
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
Most welcome home!                       Exeunt Ambassadors.
Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words
Must render up myself.
My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
My father's brother, but no more like my father
Mother, good night.- Indeed, this counsellor
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
My father- methinks I see my father.
Must give us pause. There's the respect
My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
My tables! Meet it is I set it down
My stern effects. Then what I have to do
My head should be struck off.
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
My lord, not I.
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
My operant powers their functions leave to do.
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
My custom always of the afternoon,
Nay, come, let's go together.  
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
No medicine in the world can do thee good.
Nor thine on me!                                       Dies.
Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
My virtue or my plague, be it either which,-
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!            Exit.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
Near Elsinore.
My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
My uncle?
No, no, he is dead;  
Never departed more.
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
No more.
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
Next, Your son gone, and he most violent author
Never to speak of this that you have heard:
No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
No more to undertake it, I will work him
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Nor shall you do my ear that violence
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
No more, sweet Hamlet!
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
None wed the second but who killed the first.
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
Now I am alone.  
Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there,
No.
Not shriving time allow'd.
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Now falls on Priam.
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
No noble rite nor formal ostentation,-
Not of that dye which their investments show,
Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
Now, out of this-
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
Now wears his crown.
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
O heavy burthen!
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
O royal knavery!), an exact command,
O thou vile king,
O good Horatio, what a wounded name
O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
O most pernicious woman!
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,  
O, a Pit of clay for to be made  
O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
O, speak!
O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
O, ho!
O, say!
O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
O, step between her and her fighting soul
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
O, vengeance!
O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
Of blue Olympus.
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
Of his affection to me.
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
Of him that brought them.
Of bell and burial.
Of general assault.  
Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
Of mighty opposites.
Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
Of mine own eyes.  
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
Of his true state.
Of his behaviour.
Of these dilated articles allow.            [Gives a paper.]
Of my true mother.
Of man and country-
Of those effects for which I did the murther-
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,  
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
Of the unworthiest siege.
Of thinking too precisely on th' event,-
On such regards of safety and allowance
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
One fair daughter, and no more,
On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
On plots and errors happen.
Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
One word more, good lady.
Oph. I shall obey, my lord.
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
Oph. (Sings)
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Oph. At home, my lord.
Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
Oph. Do you doubt that?
Oph. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
Oph. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot
Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
Oph. (sings)
Oph. Good my lord,
Oph. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
Oph. No more but so?
Oph. My lord, I do not know,
Oph. I was the more deceived.
Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
Oph. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.
Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
Oph. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
Oph. O heavenly powers, restore him!
Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
Oph. My lord?
Oph. No, my lord.
Oph. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.  
Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
Oph. You are merry, my lord.
Oph. What is, my lord?
Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Oph. What means your lordship?
Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
Oph. The King rises.
Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
Oph. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
Ophelia,'-
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd  
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?  
Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Oph. Pray you mark.
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
Oph. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
Oph. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.  
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
Or for some frontier?
Oph. What means this, my lord?
Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
Oph. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
Oph. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
Oph. Still better, and worse.
Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
Or not at all.
Or like a creature native and indued
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Pol. Farewell!
Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
Osr. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit.
Osr. I know you are not ignorant-
Osr. Look to the Queen there, ho!
Osr. Ay, my good lord.
Osr. How is't, Laertes?
Osr. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Osr. Nothing neither way.
Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
Osr. I commend my duty to your lordship.
Osr. Of Laertes?
Osr. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
Osr. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
Osr. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart
Other. Mass, I cannot tell.
Osr. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
Other. Why, 'tis found so.
Osr. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
Osr. Rapier and dagger.
Osr. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
Osr. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
Osr. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
Osr. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
Other. Why, he had none.
Osric, courtier.
Other. Marry, now I can tell!
Other. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
Pol. I will say so.                                      Exit.
Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
Osr. Sir?
Osr. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
Other. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
Other. Go to!
Osr. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Other. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
Osr. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
Other. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
Other. Was he a gentleman?
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Other. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand  
Over the nasty sty!
Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,
Play something like the murther of my father
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
Other. But is this law?
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Pol. Away, I do beseech you, both away
Pleasant and helpful to him!
Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,  
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
Play. What speech, my good lord?
Passing through nature to eternity.  
Out of his lunacies.
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
Pol. 'Tis most true;
Pol. Come, sirs.
Perpend.
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
Player. I warrant your honour.
Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
Play. Ay, my lord.
Play. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
Pol. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
Players.
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
Pol. And let him ply his music.
Play. 'Anon he finds him,
Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
Pol. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
Pays homage to us,- thou mayst not coldly set
Perchance 'twill walk again.
Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful.     [Reads.]  
Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
Pol. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
Play. Ay, my lord.
Pol. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Pol. And the Queen too, and that presently.
Pol. Give o'er the play.
Pol. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
Pol. Honest, my lord?
Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
Pol. Mad for thy love?  
Pol. I have, my lord.
Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
Pol. It is back'd like a weasel.
Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,  
Pol. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
Pol. Marry, well bethought!
Pol. That's very true, my lord.
Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
Pol. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
Pol. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
Pol. Not I, my lord.
Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.
Pol. That hath made him mad.
Pol. Observe his inclination in yourself.  
Pol. Very like a whale.
Pol. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
Rey. Good my lord!                                    [Going.]
Pol. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Pol. With what, i' th' name of God I
Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?
Pol. This business is well ended.
Pol. Upon my honour-
Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
Pol. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
Pol. This is too long.
Polonius hides behind the arras.]
Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
Pol. What do you think of me?
Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
Pol. What said he?
Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, [Voltemand, Cornelius,]
Queen. Let her come in.  
Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
Pol. What follows then, my lord?
Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
Pours the poison in his ears.
Polonius.
Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
Pol. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
Puts down the skull.]
Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
Put your dread pleasures more into command
Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Pray you be round with him.
Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
Priest. No more be done.
Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,  
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
Queen. Alack,
Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
Prepare to play.
Queen. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
Queen. Alack, what noise is this?
Queen. Bestow this place on us a little while.
Queen. He's fat, and scant of breath.
Queen. Hamlet, Hamlet!
Queen. Alas, look here, my lord!
Queen. Ay, amen!
Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
Queen. Come, let me wipe thy face.
Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
Queen. But not by him!
Queen. O my son, what theme?  
Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
Pursued my life.
Queen. Calmly, good Laertes.
Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
Queen. Alas, how is't with you,  
Queen. I will not speak with her.
Queen. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.          Drinks.
Queen. How fares my lord?
Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
Queen. Alas, he's mad!
Queen. How now, Ophelia?
Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
Queen. So he does indeed.
Queen. Ay me, what act,
Queen. Drown'd, drown'd.
Queen. No more!
Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
Queen. Have you forgot me?
Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
Queen. More matter, with less art.
Queen. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet!
Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
Queen. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Queen. Did he receive you well?
Queen. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!  
Queen. As kill a king?
Queen. Did you assay him  
Queen. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
Queen. If it be,
Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
Queen. O, confound the rest!
Queen. Nay, but Ophelia-
Queen. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
Queen. I shall obey you;
Queen. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
Queen. O Hamlet, speak no more!
Queen. O, speak to me no more!
Reads] the letter.
Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
Queen. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
Rey. Well, my lord.
Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.  
Queen. What would she have?
Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
Queen. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
Queen. This is mere madness;
Queen. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
Queen. The instances that second marriage move
Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Queen. So many journeys may the sun and moon
Queen. There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
Queen. What shall I do?
Reads]'High and Mighty,-You shall know I am set naked on your
Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
Reads.]
Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.  
Requite him for your father.  
Queen. it may be, very like.
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
Rey. Ay, my lord,
Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,
Rey. Very good, my lord.
Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and  
Retires with Horatio.]  
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?  
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Rey. My lord, I have.
Receiv'd his love?
Repast them with my blood.
Queen. To whom do you speak this?
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.  
Rey. I will, my lord.
Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.
Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
Ros. Good my lord!
Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
Rey. I shall, my lord.
Rey. But, my good lord-
Rome-
Rey. As gaming, my lord.
Richer than that which four successive kings
Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
Ros. Believe what?
Ros. Both your Majesties
Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
Ros. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
Ros. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
Ros. I understand you not, my lord.
Ros. Most like a gentleman.
Ros. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
Ros. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.  
Ros. My most dear lord!
Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
Ros. Niggard of question, but of our demands
Ros. No indeed are they not.  
Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
Ros. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
Ros. We shall, my lord.
Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
Ros. To what end, my lord?
Ros. Neither, my lord.
Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
Ros. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Ros. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
Ros. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
Rough-hew them how we will-
Ros. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Ros. Then is the world one.
SCENE.- Elsinore.
Ros. Will't please you go, my lord?
Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Scene II.
Ros. [aside to Guildenstern] What say you?
Rosencrantz, courtier.
Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.  
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scatters flowers.]
Ros. We think not so, my lord.
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene IV.
Scene III.
Scene V.
Sailor. God bless you, sir.
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Scene V.
Scene IV.
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Scene VI.
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
Scene IV.
See you now-
Scene VII.
Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
See what a grace was seated on this brow;
Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,  
Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
Should have a back or second, that might hold
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity,  
Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
So far from cheer and from your former state.
So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
So oft it chances in particular men
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
So much as from occasion you may glean,  
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
So levied as before, against the Polack;
Sir, in this audience,
So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
Speak loudly for him.
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
So horridly to shake our disposition
So much from th' understanding of himself,
Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]  
So bloodily hast struck.
So excellent a king, that was to this
Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
So, proceed you.
So, by my former lecture and advice,
So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
So full of artless jealousy is guilt
Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
Speak to me.  
Speak to me.
Speak to her, Hamlet.
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Spreads his arms.
Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
Some little time; so by your companies
Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
Speak, man.
Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
Swear.
Stick fiery off indeed.
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
Th' important acting of your dread command?
Such was the very armour he had on
Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so?  
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Speak of it! Stay, and speak!- Stop it, Marcellus!
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head,
Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
Take these again; for to the noble mind
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Th' effect of what I wrote?
Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely,
THE END

Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
Swear by my sword.
Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'
Swear by my sword.
Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Than is my deed to my most painted word.
That I have longed long to re-deliver.
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
That I might be the organ.
Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Than to entreaty.
Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
Than your particular demands will touch it.
Than that which dearest father bears his son
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That I must call't in question.
That I must be their scourge and minister.
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
That I essentially am not in madness,
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
That both the world, I give to negligence,
That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
That are so fortified against our story,
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling
That capability and godlike reason
That ever I was born to set it right!
That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
That for a fantasy and trick of fame
That has no relish of salvation in't-
That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation  
That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
That have a father klll'd, a mother stain'd,
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
That he which hath your noble father slain
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
That he is open to incontinency.
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
That makes calamity of so long life.
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
That might your nature, honour, and exception
That looks so many fadoms to the sea
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
That it might please you to give quiet pass
That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
That our devices still are overthrown;
That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
That she should lock herself from his resort,
That live and feed upon your Majesty.
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
That so his sickness, age, and impotence
That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
That swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe,
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
That treason can but peep to what it would,
That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
That show of such an exercise may colour
That thus he suffers for.
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That thou so many princes at a shot
That we with wisest sorrow think on him
That to the use of actions fair and good
That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
That we find out the cause of this effect-
That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
That your good beauties be the happy cause
That to Laertes I forgot myself,
That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
That was and is the question of these wars.
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,  
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
That youth and observation copied there,
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
That, if again this apparition come,
That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
The King is a thing-
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
The Attendants part them, and they come out of the
The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
The bell then beating one-
The better to beguile. This is for all:
The Queen's closet.
The Devil himself.
That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.                 [Dies.]
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
The form of plausive manners, that these men
The canker galls the infants of the spring
The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
The cock crows.
The chariest maid is prodigal enough
The changeling never known. Now, the next day  
The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
The bark is ready and the wind at help,
The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
The death I gave him. So again, good night.
The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
The apparition comes. I knew your father.
The glowworm shows the matin to be near
The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
The inward service of the mind and soul
The hart ungalled play;
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
The ears are senseless that should give us bearing
The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
The head is not more native to the heart,
The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial.
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
The need we have to use you did provoke
The insolence of office, and the spurns
The instant burst of clamour that she made
The imminent death of twenty thousand men
The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The lists, and full proportions are all made
The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
The leperous distilment; whose effect
The origin and commencement of his grief
The rather, if you could devise it so
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;  
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
The safety and health of this whole state,
The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
The light and careless livery that it wears
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
The ratifiers and props of every word,
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
The tedious day with sleep.
The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
The terms of our estate may not endure
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,  
The triumph of his pledge.
The unseen good old man.
The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
The which he loved passing well.'
The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-'
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
The very faculties of eyes and ears.
The violence of either grief or joy
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
Then, venom, to thy work.                    Hurts the King.
There is a play to-night before the King.
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
The very place puts toys of desperation,
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
There with fantastic garlands did she come
There is no shuffling; there the action lies
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
There lives within the very flame of love
There, my lord.
There's such divinity doth hedge a king
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
They bore him barefac'd on the bier
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
They swear.]
Therefore I have entreated him along,  
They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
These words like daggers enter in mine ears.
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
Therefore let's follow.
They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
Thin settled age his sables and his weeds,
These hands are not more like.
They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me!
This heavy-headed revel east and west
This bodiless creation ecstasy
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.              Exit.
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
This man shall set me packing.
This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her,
They shall go far with little.  
This is the very ecstasy of love,
This sudden sending him away must seem
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
This present object made probation.
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
This above all- to thine own self be true,
This grave shall have a living monument.
Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
They had begun the play. I sat me down;
This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
This realm dismantled was  
This marvel to you.
This mad young man. But so much was our love
This warlike volley.
This night to play before him.
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
Thrown out his angle for my Proper life,
This presence knows,
Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
This something-settled matter in his heart,
This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Though inclination be as sharp as will.
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright  
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
Throws up a skull.]
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
Thou know'st already.
Throws up [another skull].
Thus runs the world away.
Thus didest thou.'
Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,  
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Till then in patience our proceeding be.
Till by some elder masters of known honour
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
Thy natural magic and dire property
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Till of this flat a mountain you have made
Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,  
Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
To any pastime?
Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
Tis strange.
To England send him; or confine him where
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
Tis told me he hath very oft of late
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
To desperation turn my trust and hope,
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,  
To be your Valentine.
Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
To business with the King, more than the scope
To both your honours.
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
Tis now the very witching time of night,
To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever  
To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
To be commanded.
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me.
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,  
To cast thee up again. What may this mean  
To give the world assurance of a man.
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
To give it due content.
To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove,
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
To give these mourning duties to your father;
To exploit now ripe in my device,
To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
To hear and see the matter.
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
To his confine; and of the truth herein
To hear him so inclin'd.
To hear of it. They are here about the court,
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!             Exit.
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
To heaven.
To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
To his unmast'red importunity.
To put an antic disposition on),  
To him from whom you brought them.                   Exeunt.
To keep those many many bodies safe
To show yourself your father's son in deed
To mine own room again; making so bold  
To let you know of it.
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
To let this canker of our nature come
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
To muddy death.
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;  
To lay our service freely at your feet,
To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
To offer it the show of violence;
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
To show us so much gentry and good will
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
To punish me with this, and this with me,
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
To reason most absurd, whose common theme
To take him in the purging of his soul,
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
To show my duty in your coronation,  
To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
To the ambassadors of England gives
To make it truster of your own report
To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
To tell us this.
To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
To tell my story.         [March afar off, and shot within.]
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
To tell the secrets of my prison house,
To you in satisfaction; but if not,  
Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To what I shall unfold.
To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
To you alone.
Unto our climature and countrymen.
To you yourself, to us, to every one.  
To try conclusions, in the basket creep
Upon whose property and most dear life
Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
To youth and liberty.
Try what repentance can. What can it not?
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Together with that fair and warlike form
To the unsatisfied.
Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
Treachery! Seek it out.
To those of mine!
Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
Truly deliver.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
Two Clowns, gravediggers.
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
Unless things mortal move them not at all)
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
To the next abstinence; the next more easy;
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Unto that element; but long it could not be
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor  
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet.
Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
Voltemand, courtier.
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
We go to gain a little patch of ground
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
We beg your hearing patiently.                     [Exit.]
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
We cannot get from him.  
We would not understand what was most fit,
Upon the beat and flame of thy distemper
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
We must with all our majesty and skill
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
We may of their encounter frankly judge
We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
We shall express our duty in his eye;
We'll put the matter to the present push.-
We should profane the service of the dead
We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Welcome, my good friends.
Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
What majesty should be, what duty is,
What think you on't?
What does this mean, my lord?
What we two nights have seen.
What I have said to you.
What company, at what expense; and finding
What is between you? Give me up the truth.
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
What is the issue of the business there.  
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
What is the matter?
What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
What might you think? No, I went round to work
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste  
What warlike noise is this?
What thou hast said to me.
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
When down her weedy trophies and herself
When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?  
What, is Horatio there ?
When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
When I had seen this hot love on the wing
When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
What is the reason that you use me thus?
When he himself might his quietus make
When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
When in one line two crafts directly meet.  
When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
When in your motion you are hot and dry-  
When second husband let me be accurst!
When it prov'd otherwise.?
When thou liest howling.
When second husband kisses me in bed.
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,  
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
When we would bring him on to some confession
Where is your son?
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.         Exit.
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
Where should We have our thanks?
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Where every god did seem to set his seal
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Where we shall find him most conveniently.           Exeunt.
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Wherein they say you shine, Your sun of parts
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Which have solicited- the rest is silence.             Dies.
Which now goes too free-footed.
Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
Which I have told thee, of my father's death.  
Which bewept to the grave did not go
Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
Which may to you, perhaps, seein much unsinew'd,
Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,  
Which was declining on the milky head
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
Who is't that can inform me?
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
Who hath reliev'd you?
Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
Whose motive in this case should stir me most
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Why seems it so particular with thee?
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Whose violent property fordoes itself  
Why does the drum come hither?
Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
Why you proceeded not against these feats
Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
Will sate itself in a celestial bed
Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
With all my love I do commend me to you;
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
Will you be rul'd by me?
Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
Winner and loser?
Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
Will not debate the question of this straw.
Why to a public count I might not go
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
With an attent ear, till I may deliver
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
Will nothing stick Our person to arraign
With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
With all my imperfections on my head.
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
Will return'd shall know you are come home.
With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
With all the strength and armour of the mind
With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
With sore distraction. What I have done
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
With us to watch the minutes of this night,
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
Witness this army of such mass and charge,
With this regard their currents turn awry
With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
Within the centre.
Without the sensible and true avouch
With true-love showers.
With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
With which she followed my poor father's body
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.             Exit.
Without debatement further, more or less,
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd  
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile?
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly-
Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;  
Would make them capable.- Do not look upon me,
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
Without the which we are Pictures or mere beasts;
With variable objects, shall expel
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
Without more motive, into every brain
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
Yet I,
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
Yes, faith, heartily.
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
Yet have I in me something dangerous,
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Yea, from the table of my memory
Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
You cannot call it love; for at your age
Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
You are the most immediate to our throne,
You must not take for fire. From this time
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
You do remember all the circumstance?
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
You go not till I set you up a glass
You do not understand yourself so clearly
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
You mainly were stirr'd up.
You promis'd me to wed.'
You know the wager?
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
You laying these slight sullies on my son
You must not put another scandal on him,
You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
Your leave and favour to return to France;
You, as your business and desires shall point you,
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
Young men will do't if they come to't
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone  
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
a thing to you from his Majesty.
Your wisdom best shall think.
a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.  
a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution,
action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
against their own succession.
alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
amazement and admiration.
again.
and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes
and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go  
air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your  
and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
his love.
are unwrung.
bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
are shot off.  
at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].
be otherwise.
bellow for revenge.
argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
and then, you know,
and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose,
assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French
beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
carpenter?
bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
carrying torches.
carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.  
chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she
by William Shakespeare
choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
died. They say he made a good end.
city? Are they so follow'd?
change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
discretion.
deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
defence?
dare scarce come thither.
desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own  
chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
discourse to your beauty.
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician,
clouts.
end.
earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
favours?
epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
first mouth'd, to be last Swallowed. When he needs what you have
ere you had done.
fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
for your succession in Denmark?
father?
faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
help to hasten them?
freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
eyes. Prithee no more!
escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes. And now how abhorred
fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
fay, I cannot reason.
his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
further trade with us?
gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
he.
heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and
gentleman.'
form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
have not the skill.
grave.]
guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.  
he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
grave-making?
him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
him and my daughter.- My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
hath sent me to you.
gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter-
his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
have sent for you.
history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
into England.
his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
i' th' university, you say?
hold up Adam's profession.
if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
hither?
insert in't, could you not?
humanity so abominably.
his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
it not?
in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
innovation.
knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
it is but a shadow's shadow.
it means, say you this:
letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of  
kill'd me.
is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the
into a toil?
if that his Majesty would aught with us,
king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
it. Adieu.
know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
liquor.
kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes;
lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,  
ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
man is twice a child.
lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
life,
little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of
master's daughter.
love passing well.
make you at Elsinore?
of a king?
neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
make you ready.
memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
much approve me. Well, sir?  
more than their even-Christen. Come, my spade! There is no
me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.  
monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
know a hawk from a handsaw.
not.
of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
musty.
ladies. Good night, good night.                         Exit
needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
mine.
married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,  
might it not?
my leave of you.
mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
not so wildly from my affair.
mind.
my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you  
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
more, ha?
me, whether you were sent for or no.  
phrase.
man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
not off.
of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
occasion of my sudden and more strange return.
of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that
of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will
on't.
promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
pound! Didst perceive?
one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd  
piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
philosophy could find it out.
or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
pick'd out of ten thousand.
players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
pray You Pass with your best violence;
purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
plunge him into far more choler.
read, my lord?
purpose, confess thyself-
question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
repair hither and say you are not fit.
rawer breath
receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
say-
reputation and profit, was better both ways.
shall be the end of my business.
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
shame and the odd hits.
sense.
shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose  
servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
seeks her own salvation?
shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
shipwright, or the carpenter?
shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.  
shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
skull, the King's jester.
sir,- it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if
slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,
soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
stopping a bunghole?
strumpet. What news ?
take longer time.
target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
tell me one thing.
spent.
temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech.
the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
tenants.
the only men.
tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
the guts of a beggar.
the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an
them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
the stair, into the lobby.
the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come', if it be
that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
them to their trial-the bubbles are out,
them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou
the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
the players ready.
the King.
thirty years.
themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
the puppets dallying.
there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you
they'll tell all.
they are. To a nunnery, go.                            Exit.
there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
they?
think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
tragedians of the city.
you cannot play upon me.
till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
tongue? You will do't, sir, really.
thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else
tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene  
twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
very liberal conceit.
tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
where my abridgment comes.
visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
which was the model of that Danish seal;
wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last
unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel?
very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
went to cuffs in the question.
very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too
vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
waterfly?
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
what part a gentleman would see.
while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
world.
what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
your friend.
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
would perhaps trouble a woman.
twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
your bounty. Take them in.
will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
you nine year.
within 's two hours.
would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien
your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
your table!
yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
